# Metamodelling of Pandit-Hinch-Niederer-Model Using Heirarchical Cluster Based Parial Least Squared Regression (HCPLSR) and Deep Learning

The mechanistic models aimed at realistically describing biological processes such as the generation of the cardiac action potential are complex. They incorporate a large number of parameters and state variables. These parameters and state variables are linked together by a set of non-linear differential equations interconnected by complex feedback mechanisms. Hence, it is very challenging to determine the relationship between such model outputs and input parameter variation. The complex nature of these models also
make them computationally expensive.

Metamodels, i.e. statistical/machine learning-based approximation models, have been successfully used to decipher the input-output relationships of such mechanistic models. A metamodel is calibrated from the outputs generated by simulating these mechanisticmodels with a large number of varied inputs. The inputs are varied so that they cover the entire biologically relevant input space, thus ideally covering the space of feasible modeloutcomes/behaviour. Metamodels are practical tools in sensitivity analysis, parameter
fitting and reduction of computational cost

In this paper, deep learning and HCPLSR are used as metamodelling techniques to emulate the Pandit-Hinch-Niederer model that couples cellular functions for cardiac excitation-contraction in rats. This project investigates how efficiently these metamodels emulate the complex model and how these methods provide better insights on understanding the model behaviour.
